for the people of Gaza the past 100 days
have felt like a 100 years that's the
message from the UN Agency for Palestine
refugees as a grim Milestone is reached
at least
23,9 168 Palestinians have been killed
since the War Began more than 10,400 of
them
children demonstrators in Tel Aviv are
holding a 24-hour rally to demand the
release of captives held by Hamas in
Gaza protesters also expressed their
anger at Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and his government's handling
the
crisis Israeli forces have conducted
more overnight raids near romala and
hibron in the occupied West Bank Israel
has detained nearly 6,000 Palestinians
there since October the
7th over 100 days of bombs and
destruction some Palestinians in Gaza
have returned to the ruins of where they
once lived it's become a way to gather
and console each other one of those
women is um Al Abid she lost her home
and many members of her family in an
Israeli strike on Rafa she tells us how
she and her remaining family are trying
to
cope I no longer have a home All That
Remains are these ruins these have
become my home I gather my daughters and
we start reminiscing we remember that
Abid was killed here Hamid died there
kareim lost his life there and my
grandchildren were killed in that
corner we shed tears sometimes we cry
our eyes out sometimes we're overwhelmed
with
Serenity this is our life this is our
home we spend all day
here we were gathering at home and all
of a sudden the roof fell on our heads I
told my son we should leave he refused
and said said where can we
go within seconds we were hit again with
another missile my son's daughters were
around me some were injured others
passed out when she was conscious again
she started crying weeping for losing
our home I told her let's take my
grandchildren to your sister's home and
we can return here again the father
refused and said we should not leave our
home we live here we die
here we are like all other
gazin after a while Ahmed came back
crying oh grandmother my father my
brothers and sisters and my uncles were
killed they were all killed I asked him
what happened and he said oh grandmother
our home was bombed and they were all
killed
inside Maran bishara aljazira senior
political analyst is back in the studio
with us Marwan you were telling me
something before the show I'm wondering
whether you can elaborate on that for
our viewers you were saying that as um
Palestine itself becomes weaker the
Palestinian cause becomes
stronger it's just the nature of things
nowadays right uh since the assault in
Gaza Gaza destroyed in front of our eyes
in plain sight but the Palestinian cause
have been revitalized there's certainly
a Synergy between the two meaning the
more the Palestinians have become
victims the more the international
public opinion is reacting in favor of
Justice thankfully that there is a
conscience of sort among the
international public opinion but I think
this time around there's even more to it
than that uh if you look carefully about
at those who are demonstrating around
the world at those who are expressing
themselves in favor of Palestine around
the world you will see that there are
three or four distinct
groups you see them even together in the
in the C capitals of Western cap the
capitals of Western Powers Washington DC
London Paris and so on so forth one you
have the the anti- U uh um global
warming
activists the it's almost like a
rallying call for the uh for the
anti-climate change uh activists just as
it is a rallying call for the life's
black matter and anti-racism crowd you
also see all these people the activist
organizers in Palestinian uh
demonstrations Pro Palestine
demonstrations you also see the trend
that's been quite strong the last uh 20
years or so the social justice
Trend uh Israelis ask feminists in the
west why are you for
Hamas the answer is we're not for Hamas
We Are For Justice in Palestine we are
against war crimes we are against
occupation against colonialism it's it's
normal for a feminist to be against the
domination whether it's male or
otherwise of power of one against
another group so you see these groups
the anti- uh global warming the
anti-racism the anti the pro-social
Justice groups and activists all coming
together in these sort of rallying for
Palestine and what's in common between
them what underlies them underlines
their uh their call and even couples it
is the fact is the generational
issue it's the young people around the
world who are standing for Palestine the
hacks that are watching walks Fox News
and BBC or whatever they are still you
know couch potatoes saying yes for uh
you know the establishments in the west
and yes for Israel and and the old
slogans that they've heard I don't know
in the 60s and the 70s during the Cold
War and so on so forth but a whole new
younger generation is not ideological
that way it's moral there's a moral
generation that is against global
warming that is Against Racism that is
for social justice this new generation
and we're seeing it now in the polls
look at the Democratic Party in the
United States for example look at the
Young activist in the labor party in
Britain for example look at the
activists in the streets of Paris and Ma
for example so you have a new
generational thing a new generational
energy for justice in Palestine which
means
that the future is promising in that way
right so you have social movements and
you have a a generational issue in favor
of Palestine hence while Israel is
giving Palestine a beating the
Palestinian cause is gaining popularity
around the world what other lessons have
you drawn from the last 100 days so I'm
going to summarize quickly because we've
been speaking a lot about this the last
few days the last few hours so I will
say the foll first of all colonialism
has no place in the 21st century
colonialism aparted racism occupation of
of the kind we've seen in Israel
Palestine over the past 75 years the
past 56 years certainly the siege of the
past it has no place certainly it has no
place if you want to have peace and if
you don't pursue peace you're going to
get War there is absolutely no doubt
about that there is no way in between
aparted stable and just goes on forever
it's impossible three might does not
make right Israel can use all the
American weapons it has it's not going
to gain legitimacy security or peace
fourth Arab regimes who are unfair to
their people are not going to be fair
for
Palestine America can be counted on for
Israel under Biden I don't know if the
next American president or the one after
that will be as attentative as the old
Zionist Joe Biden will be to for Israel
so I think Israel is going to have to
start looking for its own not just
dependent on the United States and its
protection and its money and its weapons
it needs to be act like a Middle Eastern
country rather than as a western client
in the Middle East right and I think in
the sense of what we're just talking
about in terms of the social movements
so so there's a lot of room for optimism
that way right that something G to give
when when the international public
opinion as it gave for AP parted South
Africa in the 80s we've seen a change in
the
1990s and last but not least there's the
curse of geography we have 7 and a half
million people Palestinians 7 and a half
million Jews living in a little
minuscule piece of land the maximum
distance between them is about six miles
between any Palestinian and any Israeli
six miles in the end of the day either
they going to have divorce nicely and
happily or they going to have to marry
together there is no Third Way violence
is going to get worse with time
because violence is going to change from
using planes to using
arms engagements because you're too
close to be bombing one another real
quick which do you think it's going to
be marriage or
divorce I don't know I hope it'll be
marriage alha Z senior political analyst
Marwan bishar thank you thank you